Workbook tabs carry EW / 2-way pairs, so the basis is in the tab name

John, 22 August: today's PTEW fix closed one basis mismatch (Jol's email). The
deeper fix is not having to state a basis at all - every tab that carries a
passenger count now exists twice, an "EW" tab at the native each-way figure and
a "2-way" tab at the same figure x2, named plainly so a reader picks whichever
they want without reading a footnote first.

app/cortex_workbook.py: Forecast, Connecting feed, Schedule, Departure curve,
Catchment and Competition are each built in a loop over (("EW", 1, "each way"),
("2-way", 2, "two way")), writing to two sheets, e.g. "Forecast EW" and
"Forecast 2-way". Every count is computed once, natively each way, from the
same variables the single tab used before; the multiplier is applied only at
the point a count cell is written, never a second, independent calculation -
the same discipline as deck_contract.py's one hub-market conversion, and the
same discipline that would have stopped the connecting-basis bug in July. Rate
columns (capture rate, CAGR, share, PTEW, seat factor) are written unchanged on
both tabs; PTEW in particular nets to the same figure either way, since
passengers and departures scale together, and doubling it would itself be a
bug of exactly this kind.

TWO THINGS THE OLD CODE GOT WRONG BY OMISSION, FOUND WHILE BUILDING THIS.
Departure curve was already built entirely two-way (every column already
carried a x2) - its existing content is now the "2-way" tab, unchanged; the new
"EW" tab is built alongside it from the same undoubled figures. Schedule's
Total row was already doubled while its outbound/inbound detail rows sat above
it each showing one direction - resolved by leaving the detail rows identical
on both tabs (they are inherently per-direction, doubling one makes no sense)
and only varying the Total row: one direction on the EW tab, both combined
(today's existing figure) on the 2-way tab.

CATCHMENT AND COMPETITION carry a share of catchment demand and a share of
seats respectively - percentages, no passenger count - so their EW and 2-way
tabs are identical by construction. Built as a pair anyway, for the same
predictable 16-tab structure across every workbook, with a note on the tab
itself so an identical pair reads as intended, not as a bug.

ECONOMICS WAS NOT PAIRED. Checked aircraft_economics.py before deciding: a
rotation's cost lines are priced per rotation, not per passenger - pax_turn
= 2 x (econ_ow + bus_ow), and fuel, maintenance, landing and ground handling
are block-hour or per-turn charges with no coherent each-way half. Halving only
the passenger-linked lines (revenue, catering, per-pax charges) while leaving
block-hour and per-turn costs whole would set halved revenue against a full
rotation's cost and understate profit - a wrong P&L, not a basis choice. That
tab stays single; its title now states "two way" explicitly rather than
leaving the basis to be inferred.

VERIFICATION. diag_ewtw_workbook_check.py builds one CI/SJC-TPE workbook and
checks: the old unsuffixed tab names are gone; 2-way count cells are exactly
2x the matching EW cells on Forecast, Connecting feed and Schedule; rate cells
(capture rate, PTEW, seat factor) are unchanged between the two; Catchment and
Competition are identical EW to 2-way; Departure curve's 2-way total is 2x its
EW total; Economics stays a single tab labelled two way. Not run here - no
Sabre/OAG access in this sandbox.

Run:
    py -3.12 diag_ewtw_workbook_check.py

Avia Solutions Limited. All rights reserved.
