Add deck/departure_curve_uncapped.py - the departure-timing chart, rebuilt uncapped

John, 21 August: the SJC-TPE departure-timing slide currently plots "route total
carried" already clipped to the 87.5% load-factor capacity ceiling. Because the clip
flattens the total across both the overnight window and the evening window at the
identical ceiling value, the chart cannot show that the unrestricted optimum (circa
00:30) would carry materially more than the chosen, curfew-compliant departure - the
exact point Mark agreed on the 21 August call to make explicitly (we know 21:00 is not
the true optimum, 00:30 can't be flown for roughly two years given the curfew, but
21:00 still works well).

No new model call. cortex_workbook.py's "Departure curve" sheet (added 19 August)
already carries, per candidate departure, the scaled-but-uncapped two-way connecting
figure and the capped two-way route total. Point-to-point is constant across the day
(route_feed.optimise_departure's own long-standing finding), so:

    true uncapped total(t) = connecting, two-way(t) + point-to-point constant

both already sit in the sheet. The script reads them, self-checks that capping its own
reconstruction at the sheet's stated ceiling reproduces the sheet's own capped column
exactly (it does, on all 27 rows of the test file), then plots true total demand as the
primary line with the capacity ceiling as a flat reference line instead of a clip.

Tested against Meridian_SJC_TPE (27).xlsx (CI, 20 August export): self-check passed;
true demand peaks circa 265,270 two-way at the 00:30 unrestricted optimum against a
151,515 two-way ceiling - the gap the current chart cannot show.

No database access needed - openpyxl + matplotlib only, runs against any already-
exported Meridian Excel with a "Departure curve" sheet (CI, BR or JX). Confirmed the
21:00 label fix on the deck itself is separate and already applied directly to the
pptx (not part of this script).

Deliberately NOT wired into the pptx yet - John asked to redo this chart as a separate
task once the deck restructure is finished, then drop the new image in. This script is
that separate task's tool, not yet its output.

Run:
    py -3.12 "deck/departure_curve_uncapped.py" "Meridian_SJC_TPE (27).xlsx"

Avia Solutions Limited. All rights reserved.
