Freeze the three SJC-TPE cases with a record of what produced them

One file. econ_baseline.py already froze the three SJC-TPE carrier cases and already blocked on a
switch difference, which is what caught a run without AVIA_FREQ_SENSITIVE on 10 August. It did not
record WHAT CODE and WHAT DATA produced the numbers, and it did not record the split a client reads.
Both are added.

WHY NOW. The three cases are going to a client, and the consolidation of the two forecast paths is
about to change the engine underneath them. The numbers have been reconciled against the 2025
analyst's own deck, 111,384 against 107,857 on his basis and 106,080 against 107,857 at his 4x on
300 seats, so they are defensible today. What was missing is the ability to prove, afterwards, that
a later run was or was not the same code, the same stores and the same switches. Twice this week a
comparison was made and only later established that the two sides were not comparable.

1. PROVENANCE, RECORDED BESIDE THE NUMBERS

_provenance() records the commit and branch, python, duckdb and airportsdata versions, and the OAG
week, Sabre year and default forecast year from /api/basis.

THE COMMIT IS READ FROM THE .git FILES, NEVER BY RUNNING GIT. A git process on a mounted working
tree takes .git/index.lock and the mount denies the unlink, stranding the lock and blocking every
later commit. Reading HEAD and the ref it names is a plain file read and is safe.

Provenance is REPORTED, NOT ENFORCED. A different commit is the normal case, since the point of a
baseline is to hold numbers across a code change, and check() decides pass or fail on the figures
alone. But it prints FIRST, so the code and store vintage are read before any moved field is
interpreted. A store refresh or an airportsdata release moving a figure is a legitimate difference
and a different thing from a regression.

2. THE FIGURES A CLIENT READS

The baseline held every economics field plus carried passengers and load factor. It did not hold
the P2P and connecting split, and split_share is TOTAL-PRESERVING: it can move the split by tens of
thousands of passengers, leave the total untouched and pass the old check. Added: p2p_carried,
connecting_carried, p2p_share, feed_total, feed_beyond, feed_behind, qsi_share, natural market,
total demand before the capacity cap, and spill.

3. AND IT FAILS LOUDLY ON A RENAMED KEY

The payload keys are read by name and a missing one returns an error rather than None. Written that
way because the first draft of this change guessed "p2p" and "connecting" where the payload actually
carries "p2p_carried" and "connecting_carried": it would have recorded None for both, frozen
nothing, and reported a clean capture. That is the sixth instance this week of a missing thing
substituting a neutral value in silence.

4. HOW IT IS USED

  py -3.12 econ_baseline.py capture      before any consolidation work starts
  py -3.12 econ_baseline.py check        after every change, and before anything is quoted

Capture prints the provenance, the switches and the three cases. Check prints what changed about
the run first, then any figure that moved, and exits non-zero only on a moved figure.

  app/econ_baseline.py
  commit-message-12-12Aug2026.txt

  cd C:\AviaDev
  git add app/econ_baseline.py commit-message-12-12Aug2026.txt
  git commit -F commit-message-12-12Aug2026.txt
  git push

Avia Solutions Limited. All rights reserved.
